The one thing I think that's going to be
truly future proof is judgment. Why?
Because you have the big challenge of AI
slop. Every product leader I've talked
to is extremely worried that because you
have these engines running rampant,
they're just going to produce lots of
code. In an era when you can do
everything, the question is which of
these things matter and you should truly
do.
I thought an interesting place to start
would be the changing nature of how
people are building products. The
biggest story by far in technology seems
to be cla or claude co-work as well. The
ease with which both technical and
non-technical people are able to build
something that they can imagine. It
seems to have been just a complete
explosion in their ability to do so.
You've built a million things. You've
invested in 700 companies watching
people build things. You're about as
prolific as they come as a product
person. Maybe just give us your sort of
state of the union of how the world
feels to you in terms of technologists
building products and how fast that's
changing.
>> What was interesting about product
development is uh that 10 years ago or
even 5 years ago there were very clearly
defined roles. Product managers
articulated what to build, designers
designed it and engineers built it. Over
the last few weeks, over the last few
months, I've been talking to many
companies, but over the last two months
in particular, December and January,
December 25 and Jan 26, it's become very
clear that something has fundamentally
changed. And what that thing is is the
notion of a long horizon, a longunning
agent. I've experienced it myself about
6 months ago. I tried to use clot code
in the early days to build something. I
call it a video transcription tool. So,
I tried to build it. It kept failing and
then I had to go in and try to debug it.
Ultimately, I gave up. Two weeks ago,
while watching some episode of some TV
show, in one hour I was able to
basically prompt my way to a good video
transcription tool because these agents
now are resilient to failure. You and
you don't have to be very technical to
use them. This changes the expectation
of product teams. After I did that, I
started talking to three kinds of
companies. One, portfolio companies,
portfolio CEOs of companies I've
invested in. Second, the large AI labs.
and third a bunch of AI native young
companies to see what the similarities
are between them. So there are few a few
things that emerge. First product
development as we know it is changing
because the models and the capabilities
are growing so fast that if you try to
be very u strict and stringent about
exact describing exactly what you're
going to build or prescribing what
you're going to build it is going to not
work. So almost everybody has gone to a
bottoms up approach where it's not
driven by product management anymore.
Product managers the only thing they do
now is they articulate what the customer
needs are at the highest level and then
they are the guardian of the why. But
the actual product is built bottoms up
by engineers, researchers and product
managers and designers all working
together on the code itself. So
capabilities and models are changing
very fast. If whatever you think of 6
months ago, if you continue thinking on
that dimension, you have fallen behind.
So it's very very important for the
product managers to be understanding of
what these models are capable of and to
be hands-on. So they sit with the
engineers and the researchers and write
code, do prototypes, do anything and
everything it needs in a hands-on way.
So the first thing we are seeing now
happen is that PMs are starting to check
in code with either codec cloud code or
whatever into the actual production
repository. uh right now engineers have
to review the code but you're going to
soon see that clot codeex and other
tools actually review the code itself
before engineers commit all the
companies are struggling with how to
evaluate these people earlier there
there was nothing called the prototyping
interview now there's explicit interview
in the interview loop called prototyping
literally forces product managers to be
hands-on second the product manager and
designer role are merging increasingly
so the designer role is an interesting
role in particular a lot companies are
going through headcount allocation this
year and I'm hearing from many teams
that when given the choice between an
extra designer and extra engineer
they're saying you know what the design
systems are already laid out now that we
have the design system already laid out
we can use AI to do work around these
design systems so we need maybe a small
number of designers at the company level
to manage the design systems and the
design language but AI can leverage the
design language to do designs so please
give us an extra engineer so the number
of designers and product managers number
of engineers when I is growing up in
product. It used to be 1 to 3 or 1 to
10. It's going to 1 to 20 now. And then
I think the other very very important
thing that's happened which is
fundamentally different is when I was
growing up products were deterministic.
There was a workflow you knew if X
happened and a user did X Y happened. It
was very clear when you did X Y
happened. Today you could do X Y
happens. But if you do slight variation
of X completely something completely
different happens. Non-deterministic
software. What that means is you have to
be on the other side an evaluation or
what is called evals in AI and someone
has to evaluate whether or not what the
software is producing is reasonable or
not across various use cases. Obviously
they can be human evals, AI evals etc.
But who owns the evals? It's the PMs.
It's the PMs and the researchers. So the
PM's job is to be very clear at a high
level about what the user needs are and
then have a very clear sense of whether
this product is good to ship or not by
evaluating it. So you've got to actually
to evaluate it many times you got to
write AI yourself to evaluate the
results of AI because humans can't. So
PMs are very good at coming up with
evaluation techniques. So it's the
non-determinism of software the speed of
which things are going and overall the
notion that these things are just the
capability frontier is being pushed out
every two months makes it an incredibly
challenging yet incredibly exciting time
of product developer. If you think about
uh my friend Zach has this great way of
thinking about AI which is we had the
industrial revolution for goods and that
basically this kicks off an industrial
revolution for services. This is an
interesting opportunity to ask about
what your philosophy of product is. Um
you're such a product ccentric person
and builder that's that we that's what
you've done that's what you've invested
in. As we face down this like industrial
revolution for services
what what is your like broadest possible
philosophy of product as we enter this
era?
>> Very simple. A product person or product
manager if you call them their job is to
balance customer needs and business
needs. The product manager there has to
be somebody at the company who's the
keeper of the why. Why are we building
it? What customer need are we solving?
Why is this a pain point? How intense is
it? How deep it is? And second, how does
this add value to the company? If you
build this thing, solving this customer
need, how does value add to the company?
And I think balancing those two is a
very delicate act. You can build
something amazing that adds a tremendous
amount of value to the customer but
doesn't build any value to the business.
And you can do something that is awesome
for the business by raising prices but
is value detracting for the customer. So
balancing customer needs and business
needs at the highest level is what I
think of the product. And what it comes
down to in my opinion over the last 10
or 15 years I've really gone down to
this notion of outcomes. Outcomes I
think are what define the best product
people and outcomes have to be defined
in the form of customer behavior. I
strongly believe that the be because
customer behaviors are leading
indicators for every business outcomes.
If you think about it, the simplest
thing that a product does is to make
somebody go from not a customer state to
becoming a customer state and from
becoming a customer state to becoming a
loyal customer and then maybe to
becoming a loyal customer to become a
paying customer. So there are all these
different product states or if you do a
poor job they can go from becoming a
loyal customer to becoming a churned
customer. So these are all behaviors.
Everything you do or build should be
attuned to the goal of what customer
state change does it lead to? What
customer behavior change does it lead
to? So I tell every CEO I meet that is
trying to hire their first PM or doing
their first product review, you need to
ask why. The only question you need to
ask is why. Why are you launching this
feature? And you should not let any
feature go out if there's not a clear
hypothesis behind this feature. And the
hypothesis has to be articulated in the
form of a customer behavior change. We
we believe that by launching this thing
the customers will go from doing X to
doing Y or from spending X minutes a
month doing this to Y minutes a month
doing this. You have to have a
hypothesis which is grounded in some
data or some something you know about
the customer, some secret about the
customer. You mentioned at the start the
difference between the video
transcription tool six months ago versus
you know more recently and how quickly
that changed. It's just such a hard
future to uh reason about given the pace
of change. So how do you reason about
it? Like is there anything that can be
truly futurep proof?
>> Yes. The one thing I think that's going
to be truly future proof is judgment.
Why? Because what is the biggest
challenge you have when you have
thousand AI engineers writing code? You
have the big challenge of AI slop. Every
product leader I've talked to is
extremely worried that because you have
these engines running rampant, they're
just going to produce lots of code.
Which of this code is even valuable?
Which of these are even valuable? When
in an era when you can do everything,
the question is which of these things
matter and you should truly do on the
product side is judgment around what
needs to be built and evaluating the
output. on the engineer side is
evaluating the code because if you don't
understand what the code says I think
you can have engineers writing AI
engineers writing beautiful code that
could be wrong that could have bugs in
it that could be vulnerable someone
needs to review it and make sure you
have to have human review at some point
especially a critical code that is in
the core of your system and similarly in
design you have to have judgment around
does this make sense does it make sense
in the broader design system so I think
judgment is the number one thing that
humans are going to bring in an era of
infinite productivity. The question is
what are the things to be productive on
and are we building the right things?
>> As you evaluate companies today, build
things yourself and just think about
this problem and the trajectory of these
tools. Maybe walk through how someone
should think about building an AI
application like if if there's so many
people excited about it feels like a
gold rush with this new technology. so
many things that we can do that we
couldn't do before or things that people
specific people couldn't do because they
weren't technical that they can now do
how should people think about attacking
building something new an application
using AI starting today
>> first and foremost it has to be a deep
and compelling problem the good news is
there's a tremendous number of deep and
compelling problems today in every
vertical in every industry why because
till today till recently software was
used more as a tool by people by humans
we finally have software that is agentic
in nature which means it can do the job
of people. So the the question you have
to ask is where are what industry are
there roles of people that are highly
paid that are doing somewhat of a
repetitive job and that can be done by
software. Every 3 months the answer gets
deeper and deeper. You couldn't have
told me that a designer's job could be
automated by AI like 6 months or 9
months ago. You couldn't have told me
that an architect's job could be
automated by AI. a lawyer's job could
you auto? It turns out increasingly in
every vertical these capabilities are
getting better and better. So you want
to start with first and foremost what
industry do you want to be in and what
kind of job do you want to do. Second
you want to target a high value
workflow. You want to target a workflow
uh a way of working that is deep that is
complex and that is u that is basically
uh that that requires custom data. I met
with the CIO of a fortune 500 company a
few weeks ago. I think one of the
challenges with this with this whole
space is that the models are becoming so
good that if you try to build a company
that is light that is not a hard problem
the foundation model companies are going
to eat you. So this CIO that I met at
this company said I I was asking him
over a few startups I had invested in
and worked with. He said look I don't
know why I would use any of these
startups. Gemini has an agent builder
product and I also use Chad GDP
enterprise and they also have an agent
builder product and I have a thousand IT
engineers who work for me.
>> They all want to be retrained as AI
engineers.
>> So I'm just going to put them using
these horizontal tools to build my AI
agents. Why do you need any startups?
And so that's the kind of thing you're
going to face that if the CIO of a
company of your target customer can
build what you're building these agent
building tools, you're not going to be
successful. So you've got to really go
one step ahead of what can be built a
multiple steps ahead and you got to
extrapolate to where can the
capabilities of these agent building
products go and you got to do something
very very different. So what that means
is you've got to have an you got to have
durability because ultimately as venture
capitalists are or even as an
entrepreneur your time horizon can't be
building something that lasts for one
year and that's the biggest challenge.
It's not building an application. It's
building an application that's durable
that basically will last a test of time.
And I think there are a few things
around durability. One, you need to have
ownership of a scarce asset. Uh a scarce
asset could be it could be a license of
some kind. It could be a a regulation of
some kind where you have unique insight
into it. Second, you might need to you
might basically own a control point. A
control point is a thing that controls
how people interact with money or with
data. So if you you want to own that.
Third, you want to maybe have hardware
which is hard to replace. Fourth, maybe
you want to be part of an essential
workflow. Fifth, you want to have
network effects. You want to think about
those things and figure out how after
you take on that workflow, you can make
it more durable. And finally, I think
your ambition has to be to replace the
entire system. In other words,
increasingly what is going to happen and
I'm seeing this more and more is every
vertical has either a legacy or somewhat
new what is called a system of record
which is a system where most of the data
is stored for that system. For example,
in legal there's a company called
Filevine or another company called Cleo.
There's a few of these companies in
sales at Salesforce. In in healthcare
it's Epic. Now for many years these
companies all had APIs that if you enter
that industry you could build an agent
company on top of these APIs.
In 2025 things changed. These companies
started seeing that these agent
companies, AI companies that are being
built, they are starting to take on the
functionality out of these companies and
are treating them like a dumb database.
So you started seeing last year that
these companies are cutting off access
to APIs. Slack has done it most
publicly. Slack is owned by Salesforce.
They cut off access to Glean where Glean
can no longer access Slack data. And the
reason is they don't want Glean to build
on top of them and then slowly suck out
the value that Slack has. And I'm
hearing from other verticals that
they're doing one of three things.
They're blocking access to APIs. They're
offering their own agents for free
bundled or they're charging these AI
agent companies to access the data. Let
just to access data. The API was free.
They're saying now it's like $2 an API
call or something like that. So they're
basically making they're trying to make
the model of these agent companies
unviable. I think it's going to be very
hard for a end customer to use multiple
companies where you have a system of
record and then you have this agent that
sometimes doesn't work with it properly.
So the agent companies have no option
but to also start building and offering
a system of record. So every company I
know is now trying to figure out how do
I build the entire platform and not just
a system that does some workflows. I
think last year everyone was like, "Oh,
we can do workflows. We can build what
is called the system of action uh and
live on top of the system of record." I
don't think that's an option anymore.
>> The Slack example is a good one of uh a
sort of last generation software company
which was very big and very successful.
One of the most interesting investor
questions and I'm curious for your
answer from the perspective of a builder
and a technologist is that uh the degree
to which these horizontal model
companies are going to destroy or be
very bad for old software companies
because over time it will be trivial to
spin up your own Slack that has features
that you want for your company and it's
very reliable in all the same ways that
Slack is and therefore Slack's in a lot
of trouble. How do you think about that
question of like obviously public
markets seem to think software is in a
lot of trouble. The multiples are really
really low. How much would you be
worried if you ran like a good solid but
older software company today?
>> There are two or three kinds of software
companies. I think the the software
companies that are should be the most
worried right now is where they are
pricing the product based on utility.
Zenesk is a good example where literally
Zenesk prices seats and each seat comes
with utility. In other words, each seat
corresponds to a customer service agent
that tax certain number of customer
tickets. So that company should be
worried. Why? Because I can have an AI
agent sit right next to Zenesk and you
can slowly siphon off. You can use
instead of paying for 50 Zenesk seats,
you can pay for 20 and I can have 30 AI
agents sitting next to Zenesk and that
siphoning can hap happen over time. You
don't have to have a all-in-one
decision. It can be a two-way door
decision. Those are the most endangered
companies in my opinion. You need to
change your pricing model to be based on
outcome and you need to actually build
the product to be based on outcome. It's
easier said than done because literally
you're going from a 20 or $30 per seat
to maybe charging a buck or 50 cents or
20 cents per ticket result and you don't
know how that's going to turn out. So
you've got to change your pricing model
and I think that's a very challenging
thing. That's why I think many of them
probably need to go private because they
have to make this business model
transformation in private. I think it's
going to be hard for them to stay
public. The companies that are less
exposed are ones where the utility is
not based on seats but it's based on
data that has been collected and
captured over a period of time and the
the more uh timeless the data is the
more protected they are. Slack for
example I would say might be in a little
bit more precarious state because the
data in Slack is half time halfife is
very short that's a great way of putting
it but if you have ERP is a great
example somebody uses Netswuite as a ERP
now I don't know if how Netswuite
actually charges but it doesn't matter
however many seats you buy the reality
is it runs your whole business and there
is no compelling reason for someone to
put their career at stake by ripping out
Netswuite I know there's a lot of now
over the last year there's been a lot of
AI enabled ERP businesses but there's
There's no compelling reason to take
Netswuite and say I'm going to rip it
out because it is career limiting to
suddenly take Netswuite out when you're
a company running on Netswuite. So I
think those companies are much more
insulated and I think obviously and you
could argue that Netswuite has more time
to build AI agents on top of it because
they have the data they have data and
they can train the AI agent on top of it
and bundle it. So you could essentially
I think the software public markets are
not distinguished between these two
types of companies. Companies where the
half level data is low and where you can
actually have you can literally take
half of the value of this company and
put it onto an AI company that sits next
to it. Well something like an ERP system
or even Salesforce for sales data and
records those are real customer records.
It's going to be hard. So what are AI
native companies doing? The first thing
you've got to do if you ever have to
compete against them is you got to spend
a year or two first building a system
that literally takes migrates your
Salesforce instance to your own
company's platform. One of the one of my
companies is Na native company. They
literally hired engineers in a European
Eastern European country for 2 years to
build this migration thing transition
tool. So you have to build the migration
tool because
>> who's going to migrate it? you can just
present your spanking new system but
this data is still there even for square
for a small business I remember they had
a point of sale they wouldn't they
wouldn't move to us even though it was
cheaper because they had gift cards
customer data loyalty data payments data
all of that you know even credit cards
so we had to build scripts and and that
took us months or years to build it for
a simple POS for something like
Salesforce you can't just say well here
I am I'm a great I'm a much better CRM
because I connect there is this thesis
which I completely agree with that if
you look at CRM what does a CRM contain?
It contains your customer record. Your
customer support system contains what
your customers are complaining about and
Jira or Atlacian contains what your
product development team is building.
Now all of these things should be linked
right because there is no linkage. You
you should be building the biggest you
should be addressing the biggest
complaints of your customers which are
in Zenesk and you should those Zen
customers you should know where they
came from who bought them who sold them
what the AM is. So all these three c
three systems should be linked together
but they're all three different
companies. So they're companies that are
trying to unify these things and it's a
great value prop but guess what none of
your customers is ever going to move
unless you build a simple seamless way
to take the Salesforce data and move it
to your instance. the data from GM move
to your instance the Zender data move to
your instance. So literally it's a
two-year effort to build migration
otherwise you've got to get Accenture.
>> How do you think about um stickiness in
this era just as a general concept when
the friction for creators to build
something net new is so easy is so low
you can do whatever you want really
fast. How do you how's anyone going to
use anything for a long period of time?
>> The age of AI stickiness I think comes
from a few sources. I think you need to
have network effects. So Door Dash is
sticky not just because it has this
beautiful app, but it's because it's a
network of restaurants and dashers and
consumers. So you can't just attack one,
you've got to go,
>> you can't vibe code your way to those
two.
>> Exactly. And so network effects. Uh
second u second example of stickiness is
when you have financial or money moving
through you. I think that's another way
to be sticky. I think uh many of the
system of records I think like for
example toast have payments going
through them and I think that really is
interesting because you can't just start
building the point of sale you also have
to have money flowing through it and I
think uh if you look at the banks banks
are a good example a business bank once
you have something like mercury as a
business bank it is hard you have money
flowing through it is hard to then
switch because you have regulations
other stuff embedded so I like things
that are combination of financial
services and software because of That
the third stickiness is from hardware.
You can actually have hardware. Toast is
a good example where toast gives you
hardware for free but if you try to give
return the hardware you have to pay
them. But either case the hardware is
there and somebody can't just build
software. They also have to take
hardware and put it into the thing and
rip out the toast hardware. The fourth
one is uh access to a uh unique asset.
Uh, and I I was thinking about a good
example and I came up with the example
of Sierra, which I think the unique
asset is Brett Taylor. I mean, they have
full control of Brett, who's one of the
best salespeople, chairman of Open AI.
He can make a call to any company, any
country, and they'll take his call. You
can't really outsell Brett. And so, I
think there's alpha in that. And so, I
think there are, you need one of these
four or five things which are basically
indicators of durability. The halflife
of software today is so short that
unless you're one of these things that
make it durable. Harrison Helmer has
this thing called uh seven powers. And
so you got to have a few of those seven
powers that that basically are embedded
in the business model from day one.
>> You you've been so lucky to work for
some of the most well-known CEOs and
founders of this sort of modern era. I'd
love the chance to ask you a little bit
about each of them and what you learned
from them and then more generally just
things you've learned about what great
leaders do to run companies. Maybe going
back all the way back to Google and
starting with Larry, Larry and Sergey,
what what did you learn from watching
them operate and lead?
>> Yeah. One of the most interesting things
about all the leaders that I've worked
with which I think have built
generational companies is that they have
a superpower that is very aligned with
what the company needs to succeed. And
the company was really shaped in their
image. the company, the culture, the
early hires, the products. When I joined
Google, I joined Google in 2003 January.
The first product I got exposed to
actually which I didn't know about was a
product called Caribou. Caribou was an
internal code name for a product that
was launched on April 1st, 2003.
Publicly, it was called Gmail.
>> I I I didn't believe that this product
existed because in the internal alpha,
it said this gives you 1 GBTE of
storage. Back then, remember, Yahoo mail
was the dominant product and it gave 10
megabytes of storage. So this thing had
100x more storage and this really
epitomizes Larry and Sergey's philosophy
which was basically built the best
technology on the planet. They were
deeply technical and every product was
held to technology and scale and I'll
never forget AdSense was the fastest
growing product in Google history and we
went in to reviews and Larry would be
disappointed in us and we asked why.
It's like what percentage of all ads on
the internet are you be like like less
than 1%. His goal was not to again he
didn't care about the revenue. He cared
that Google is involved in serving every
single ad on the planet versus like
making a making a business of like
whatever billion or two billion or 10
billion. So the focus on scale and the
focus on technological superiority and
that investment Google Street View I
mean and and basically TPUs
uh Whimo all of these I think show the
10 plus years of investment to an
uncertain future but knowing that if you
invest in technology good things are
going to happen and good things happen
but it took a decade and that's
investing in technology capabilities.
Before we leave Google, um you had this
interesting idea about communication and
Eric Schmidt obviously another key
Google person. Can you talk tell the
story about him presenting the company
strategy using nothing but images and
just like a this is like an interesting
example of communication?
>> Yeah, Eric Eric was a I mean I think one
of the interesting things I've seen is
that the other interesting thing I've
seen is that almost every great founder
or founding team needs an Eric needs an
Eric figure. If you look at it, Mark
Zuckerberg had Cheryl Sandberg, Jack
Dorsey at Keith Reoa and Tony at Door
Dash, we had Christopher Payne. So,
everyone had somebody who was
complimentary to them and really helped
uh you know they they're amazing at say
technology and scale. Eric was amazing
at bringing a team together leading and
I think Larry and Sea learned a lot from
it and Larry of course became CEO after
Eric stepped down but Eric was
incredible. So uh Eric would give a
product leader. We would become
secundered to Eric for uh the weekly
strate or the annual strategy planning
session. So I did it I think in 2007
where my job was to go to Eric and say
Eric how do you want to present the
strategy of the company? He's like well
it's very simple. I want you to go and
interview each of the folks each of the
different leaders of uh the different
teams. There's only one constraint I
have. I'm like what is that? You can't
use any words to describe what they're
doing.
>> I'm like what do you mean you have to
use words? Nope. you've got to use only
images. I'm like, why is that? He's
like, people don't remember words. They
remember how things made them feel. And
you can put words in the speaker notes
I'll use, but I want you to come up with
the most compelling image that that
exists for what they're describing to
describe. And so it was a crazy thing
because I never thought of doing a
presentation that way. And uh so I went
to you know each each of the businesses
adwords, search, YouTube, AdSense and
then had to come up with a compelling
image that was easily accessible to the
whole company yet represented what they
did.
>> Do you remember like a specific image
like an I'm so interested by this
exercise. It seems like potentially
productive for anyone to try to jam what
they're trying to say into only images.
And so I'm trying to pin down like an
image and how you how you arrived at it
or
>> I think for YouTube it was a graph. It
showed the graph the number of videos
that being uploaded every second how it
had changed from the time Google brought
them to them. So it was not even a
graph. It was literally showing this
incredible hockey stick that happened
over the last 18 months and then it it
had I think we couldn't even show the
numbers. So the the thing had to be
compelling enough that it could just the
line would have to be like a U or
something like that when it went like
that because we just show it like this.
you have to say something 100x or
something where you couldn't say that.
So, so we had to show that was the one
thing we wanted to show that Google
search has gone from being used by small
and midsize companies to being used by
the largest companies in the planet. We
showed the logo of um of I think they
had a very large Fortune or Fortune50
company that they had acquired.
>> Your finance team isn't losing money on
big mistakes. It's leaking through a
thousand tiny decisions nobody's
watching. Ramp puts guard rails on
spending before it happens. Real-time
limits, automatic rules, zero
firefighting. Try it at ramp.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique, and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street,
connected to your data, understanding
your process, and producing real
outputs. Check them out at
rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity. Use Work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product.
>> What did you learn from Zuck?
>> Zuck was u and is actually I think the
greatest mind on growing building growth
and engagement in consu building
consumer products broadly. I've seen him
basically sit in a room and critique
some a product team would have come in
with a very wellthoughtout
product uh consumer product flow and he
would look at the flows and he'd say
that is not going to be compelling to
users that is not something that a user
is going to engage to change it to this
and you say my god why didn't I see that
before so he's very very good at
thinking about how consumer product
should be designed to maximize
engagement and maximize just growth both
is probably the best way to put it. The
second thing he's amazing at is learning
by following. When I joined, I was uh my
task was to lead the ads product team
and Zach at that point knew a little bit
about ads uh because he had worked with
Cheryl quite closely. Cheryl had worked
on ads before. But then within I think
about a year he shadowed us. He came to
the ads team. He basically sat with us.
He came to many of our meetings and
within a year he got to the point where
he was generating ideas for the ads
team. One of the most foundational ideas
of Facebook ads came from what is called
custom audiences. Custom audiences is
the foundation of most ad systems now is
the is the idea that you as an
advertiser you want to reach people who
are similar to your customers. So if
you're a bank and you have say 100,000
customers, how can you give this set of
customers to your ad platform and say
look instead of describing these
customers right what do what did before
they would describe their customers I
think they are 25 to 34 year old women
that's too that's not good enough
instead if you can just tell us who your
customers are and we can map it to our
users we can then find people similar to
them so uploading that data into our
system securely early and doing it in a
way that doesn't compromise an EPI was
was the key thing and it all came from
Zuck. How? Because Mark Pinkers was the
CEO of Zinga. Zinga was the largest
advertiser on Facebook. Zinga basically
wanted to like most gaming companies
they were very focused on acquiring
Wales.
>> Uh because Wales for any gaming company,
casino etc. 80% of all probably all the
betting companies 80% of all revenue for
any gaming company comes from Wales. So
he was very frustrated at us. We would
do uh these quarterly reviews with Zingo
on the ad side because they were large
spenders on ads and they would
constantly be yelling at us saying we
want to get more whales. We were like
yeah you're getting users and you it's
your idea you need to figure out how to
get whales from your games. What do you
want us to do? We can help you acquire
users. So he once I think talked to Zuck
and Zuck came to us and said why can't
they just upload their whales into our
system? We know who the whales are. Why
can't we just find them people similar
to those whales? We were like that's
interesting but we actually didn't know
who the whales were. So they needed to
tag it for us who the whales were and
and basically we started doing it
similarly. We started finding users
similar to the whales that they had and
it worked so well. Then we said why
don't we take this approach and use it
for other types of customers who we
didn't have data on and it became truly
it was a transformative thing for ads
and it was all it was all Zuck's idea.
He just has something about connect
making connections between disparate
domains which is uh pretty pretty
amazing and unique. Jack is the I mean
he's I think on par with Johnny Iv and
Steve Jobs as in terms of his thinking
with design. I understood what good
design means. Good design doesn't mean
visually pleasing. It means a a product
that is designed so well that you don't
have to give your customers a manual on
how to use it. They should be able to
see the product and use it. Think about
your point of sale. Every point of sale
except Square and things that have
copied Square, you have to train a
barista still for several days after
they join on how to use the point of
sale. Square is something you can
download from the app store and start
using it as a point of sale to run your
business. A category where you have to
you have to you have to train somebody
for weeks. That's the example of a of a
good design. He brought that to every
part of the company and removing
friction from what is traditionally I
mean Square's whole premise was removing
friction from small businesses applying
for financial services and that extended
to the product that also extended to
risk. One of the most interesting things
that I didn't realize is that Square at
its core is a risk company. when you
apply to a bank for payment processing.
In fact, the company was founded because
Jack's co-founder Jim was rejected many
many times to accept AMX uh by by banks.
He was a fairly successful glass blower
in St. Louis and uh he basically was
selling two $3,000 glass sculptures to
people who would send him checks. So, a
woman called from Panama one day and
said, "I want to buy this on his
website." He had this beautiful piece of
glass. He said, "Great." They agreed on
the price and she said, "I can you take
my credit card number?" So he said, "I
don't accept credit cards." So she said,
"Sorry, I can't send you your travelers
check or check or whatever the case is."
So he lost the sale. And so he went to
his friend Jack Dorsey. They had never
built hardware. They had never done any
of that stuff, but they brainstormed and
realized that the phone, the iPhone,
which had just been released a couple of
years ago, had this thing called the
audio jack that basically could be used
to uh put a piece of hardware in and
process cards. I I can't even imagine
the leaps you have to make to get there.
But the number one thing that they
realized is people most of most small
business are denied by banks when they
apply. Square instead said we are going
to accept 95% and but what they did was
they put risk at the transaction level.
So they accepted you as a person as a
business but then once you started
processing transactions they would then
run machine learning models and every
transaction this transaction risky this
is not. shifted the level
>> shifted the level and so that kind of
lazy but brilliant onboarding is
something that characterizes a lot of
good thinkers Sergey very similar I've
come up with this conclusion when we're
going to launch AdSense in 2003 I I'll
never forget this 2003 May was when we
were doing our final launch things
Sergey was our sponsor he came and sat
in the meetings he said what are you
guys building here we're like oh you
know website publishers are going to
apply from all across the world it's a
self-s serve product we have to review
them we have to review them and say we
should approve them not approve approve
them to run AdSense. He's like, why do
you need to approve them? We were like,
what do you mean? Our ads are going to
we are going to be running ads on on
these things. Google ads or ads powered
by Google. You don't want to be on a
porn site or something else. He's like,
why not? We didn't really have good
answer to why not. I was like, well, you
know, standards or like policies. Okay,
but what if they lie? He was right. What
if they lie? Like I could We had so many
people applying with Nike.com, for
example. It's true. It was very hard to
know who owns a domain, right? I could
apply with with your domain uh and
basically, you know, get accepted. He
was right in some ways. We were just
doing it to cover our asses, turns out.
And so he said, "Okill all this." So we
had literally spent half of our
engineering team building this complex
approval system with ops and so on. Ops
are super excited. They hired a lot of
people and now you're telling us not to
do and instead do it in real time for
every page that loads because we had the
JavaScript on it. We know what URL it
is. Look at the content at that point.
>> And we were like it's too slow. We won't
be able to look at the content because
it's billions of pages. That's fine. Let
it load for 100 times and after 100
impressions if any URL hits 100
impressions then start reviewing it. not
trying to put lots of checks up front,
>> but being intentional about where and
why. Most things don't even get to the
level where you care about. So only do
stuff. The same thing happened with
click fraud. Click fraud was one of
these biggest challenges that we faced
and where people click on their own ads
and make money. How the hell do you
solve that? The reality is you don't.
You just wait and you start
understanding what click fraud is and
then you solve it. So be reactive and
solve it when it needs to be solved at
that point versus waiting. So the square
thing was exactly move risk from the
business level to a transaction level.
The same with AdSense. Move risk from
the publisher level or the you're
basically you cannot gate because
getting somebody to come to you and sign
up is one of the rarest things in
history. Someone is coming to you and
expressing an interest and you're saying
you're going to put 10 different
barriers. That's the opposite of self-s
serve.
>> So pure self-serve product would never
have any reviews of any kind. You're
going to be immediately activated. go on
and we'll do checks in real time based
on what you're doing versus banning you
or stopping you.
>> You me in both these amazing examples
and then you also said that Jack would
do this across the company, not just in
the product. How would you sum up the
process of great design that you've
observed from the people that are the
best at design? What is the what is the
thing they're the method that they're
going through over and over again as
they apply it to different parts of the
company or product?
>> The number one thing I've seen is they
try to minimize the number of steps.
Everything should be in one page and you
need to cut down things. In fact, Jack
called the product manager role product
editor. Why? Because he believed rightly
so that the role of the product manager
is not to add more features. Any of us
can look at a product and say here's 10
things you should build. The best fe the
best designers, the best product people
edit down things. Similarly, we have 100
features. What are the two things that
really matter that will drive the
customer outcome? So the best designers
really take 10 pages of design and say
cut out all the experience. So I think
it's the process of editing and this
goes to judgment. I think this is in an
AI age humans with amazing judgment
which is really editorial capabilities
are the ones that are going to do well
and thrive.
>> Apparently uh Rick Rubin would say that
he wasn't a producer he was a reducer.
>> Great example reducer. I like that.
>> I wonder how that applies also to
communication. Um maybe this is a fun
opportunity to ask you about the format
that you've lighted on that a leader can
send to his team on a weekly basis. I
think it seems like this idea of
reducing and simplifying can be applied
in so many ways by great leaders. Talk
about it in terms of communication uh
from leadership to a team. One of the
things that people especially founders
of startups don't realize is initially
most startups start with two or three
people and then they go to people who
are all sitting in a room together.
Everyone can hear what you're saying.
But as soon as a company goes into I
think I call it two rooms where they're
not in the same room together. Then you
have to communicate. You have to you
have to let people know what's going on.
You have to bring everyone together. And
there are a few artifacts that companies
need to start putting into place. One is
a notion of an all hands where I think
an all hands it seems cliched but an all
hands is actually and it seems
unnecessary but even with a 15 20 person
company just getting together once a
week um maybe on a Friday or a Monday
depending or Thursday and and basically
just sharing what people have built have
been working on in a way and then having
the leader address uh everyone or one of
the leaders address everyone is a great
way to get people together. The second
thing is a weekly CEO email. And I think
this is a very powerful way for the CEO
to get across to the to the team what is
on their mind. The best way I think is
uh that I've done myself is during the
course of the week, you start jotting
down things that you think you want to
communicate and then you'd spend Sunday
or Saturday, whatever the case may or
taking all of those things and adding it
to two or three things that matter that
you want to get across. Most businesses
I think can be communicated along three
dimensions. Progress, product, business
and team. What's happening on the
product? How is it becoming more
remarkable or serving our customers
better? What's happening on the business
side? How are we doing better as a
business? And then what's happening on
the team front? Who have we added,
subtracted? What changes have we made?
And most importantly, don't be afraid of
repetition. Don't be afraid of
repetition because repeating it once,
twice, thrice, four times is what people
that's when people actually it seeps
into their bones. What is the literal
format that you do? So you've got three
in your email. What is the structure
that you do personally?
>> So the format I've used in the past and
what I recommend and what people I've
seen now I've seen at least 15 CEOs
adopt it and to good effect is three
sections. One is called top of mind. So
this is product, business and team. Like
what is top of mind on the product side,
on the business side, on the team side.
Doesn't need to be all three. What's top
of mind for you? What's keeping you up
at night? I think this is the thing that
literally everyone is hanging on to. I
mean because I remember seeing it from
from Jack, from Mark, from Cheryl. I I
think just seeing it put in paper or put
in an email is just so powerful. That's
one. The second thing is performance
update. I think everyone wants to truly
understand how's the company doing.
How's the company doing on the
dimensions, I think. And this is where
especially being a startup, I think most
people are one dimension removed from
how the company is doing. They all want
to know that they're doing well. And I
think this is the way. And the third is
miscellaneous is things like recognizing
specific people. It's quotes from
customers. It's maybe an off-site
announcement. But the most important
section where you should spend 60 or 70%
of your time on is top of mind.
>> How transparent should one be in that?
As a leader of a business, I could tell
you what's top of mind, but a lot of it
either might be sensitive or uh I would
worry about scaring people or worrying
people about something that I'm thinking
about or worrying about. like what keeps
me up at night might create stress in
the business. So like where where where
should one draw the line in terms of how
candid they are about
>> I personally think more candid is better
than less why but if you're more candid
what you can do is you can actually get
people you can actually ask people to
suggest ideas and that's the thing I
think you by by you just if you have
good talent at the company if you
actually ask them what do you think I
should do what do you think we should do
in this situation I think people will
rise up to the occasion especially when
the company is small we want people more
input and there's a oneway road decision
that we're going to make where making it
takes us one way or the other. I think
it'd be great to get um get get feedback
from more people.
>> I want to talk about ads and um
everything you've learned about building
like an incredible ads product. You
basically have built like the core
business the important core business
engine at multiple places at at the sort
of main character company across across
your career
>> as a company. You either die or you live
long enough to become an ads company.
And so we are seeing now with OpenAI
it's happening. Now how do you build an
ads business? There are three
fundamental ways to succeed in the ads
business. Three and only three. One, you
need to own a very coveted uh group of
users and you need to have a surface on
which those users with which those users
interact. Google search is a great
example. It's a surface on which a very
coveted set of users interact with. U
obviously they express high intent. So
Google is one of the most profitable ad
businesses. Facebook very similar. It
took us a while to figure out what was
coveted of both these users. Turns out
what was committed was the identity. We
knew who these users were and we could
match them to customer and other data
and so you could precisely target these
people with messages you wanted and you
could find people similar to them. Chat
GPT their combination of intent and
identity data is unparalleled. I mean
Google had intent data but not identity.
Facebook identity but not intent. These
things been both together. I mean it is
a it's the dream of any any advertising
person. I mean shoot I mean I don't know
how many searches they see but they
going to see they're going to see more.
And these are complex complex
multi-phase searches, right? That's the
other beautiful thing. You search or you
and each of the queries is kind of like
a search and then you search again and
you're just building up searches. At
Google, you typically search and then
you lose the person because they go off
and click and you don't hear. These are
like natural language queries ripe for
amazing amazing targeting. That's one
way of making money. But you have to own
a firstparty product. You have to be the
first party. Second, you have to drive
outcomes. That's another way of making
money where you don't own any inventory
but you can drive outcomes for
advertisers. The best example of this is
a company called Apploving. Apploving is
a 100 plus billion dollar company. They
drive one outcome really well, mobile
app installs. And no one believed that
people would need that many mobile app
installs. Turns out everyone wants to
get mobile app installs. It was
initiated only restricted to gaming. But
now every mobile app where they sold one
mobile app installed. So app loving has
built a massive infrastructure. Now they
control the buy side, they control the
sell side, they even control the
middleware. You could argue that they
kind of control the auction for most
mobile apps in a way that almost Google
used to control or people say they
control for the web. But apploving has
built an amazing engine to deliver
mobile app installs at a certain cost.
>> So that's the other way. Second way to
do it. You deliver an outcome at a
certain cost.
The third way to do it is if you are the
exclusive
provider for a large advertiser or a
large source of demand where you become
a good example is a company called the
trade desk where Proctor and Gamble for
example go to the trade desk and say I
spend with Google I spend with Facebook
all my other display budget trade desk
here you go you can figure out how to
distribute it and how to run it and so
those are the three ways but you got to
be exclusive so Those are the three ways
that you can make money.
>> What business ideas don't work in in
advertising? Like what are the business
models that just are doomed to fail?
>> Trying to be a middleman on top of these
large platforms from my understanding
work trade desk I know doesn't work on
Google or Facebook at all. Doesn't work
with Google or Facebook as a first
party, but applovin I think only little
bit works on Google and Facebook. Mostly
they do their stuff on the on the
unwashed web basically outside. So,
you've got to stay out of Google and
Facebook's ecosystems because if you're
trying to build your business on top of
Google and Facebook or probably soon
OpenAI uh as an ad company, you're going
to get squeezed over and you every time
you build a new capability on top of
Google, turns out Google learns what
you're building
>> and Google has the best engineers on the
planet. So do Facebook, they will take
your capabilities, incorporate into
their platform. There's going to be
almost certainly a cottage industry of
companies that are going to come and
say, "I'm going to help you optimize ads
and chat GPD." There's already companies
that help you optimize placement in what
is called these answer engines called
AEO instead of SEO. All of those are not
going to create durable enduring
companies.
>> As your business grows, Vanta scales
with you, automating compliance and
giving you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Ridgeline is redefining asset management
technology as a true partner, not just a
software vendor. They've helped firms 5x
and scale, enabling faster growth,
smarter operations, and a competitive
edge. Visit ridgidelineapps.com
to see what they can unlock for your
firm.
>> What would you be worried about if you
were one of these fairly monopolistic
owners of a massive ad network like the
ones we've discussed?
There Uber and Amazon in the mix, Door
Dash, Facebook, Google. If you were
there running their ads businesses, what
would scare you?
>> Consumer behavior change. Consumer
behavior change where they don't open up
the apps anymore, but they use agentic
interfaces. They use AI interfaces which
are not owned by my company, this
company to to do their transactions. If
you assume that a big percentage of
things are repeat, then could you put
those repeat things on autopilot through
an agent and you never open the app and
so you lose opportunities to then
advertise and so and you lose the
relation with the customer over time
because the customers start trusting the
AI agent. You can't bury your head in
the sand. You have to go and experiment.
That's why when Chad GPD opened up their
apps platform, all of the commerce
platforms are experimenting. And the
thing I would look for very carefully is
there are going to be early adopters
using the app. I'm going to look for
obviously they're going to connect their
account, their Uber account with the
chat GBD account. I'm going to look to
see these people who are connected.
How's their behavior on my app? Are they
going to my app or not?
>> Are they opening my app or not? Are they
opening my app much less frequently?
Because if that's the case, then
obviously this experience is so
compelling that I would then have an
choice to make. How do I make this
experience maybe not as compelling as my
app experience or how do I incentivize
them here to open up my app?
>> There's a new battle happening for that
first category which is a new interface
to be owned. We know chat GBT is sort of
does I'm curious if you think being the
first mover matters to build a new ad
network because there's there's Gemini,
there's Anthropic, there's a bunch of
people that have tons of users using
this new interface. How do you think
about the landscape of the new potential
entrance to build the next dominant uh
at network? What advice would you give
these various parties?
>> The good news is the being first doesn't
matter. Why? because you control
especially if you're in category one
which we described you control your
first party inventory in fact being
second or third you can learn from the
iterations and mistakes that the first
one makes your inventory is not going
anywhere now some might have more
urgency to monetize than others but
Gemini doesn't need to monetize anytime
soon so they can just sit back they have
a lot of ads expertise and data from
Google they can sit back and wait till
they need to monetize uh in fact a good
strategic move for them might be to say
I am I am the zero ad platform like
Apple claims or Google can claim that
Gemini has no ads in it and there is a
certain set of customers or consumers
who care about that. But the biggest
thing is I think and and OpenAI has done
a good job of articulating this ads
should not ads and content ads should
not influence the content that is served
to me or the recommendations that AI
gives to me. I think they should be they
should be relevant and but they should
not be um influencing the the
recommendations. And second, you have to
keep a high bar for engagement and
usefulness. Unfortunately, however
relevant ads are, the reality is that
this wasn't proven is that once you
start showing ads in an previously
unmonetized uh no zero ads uh surface,
engage engagement of users goes down
over time. It does because some of the
engagement gets siphoned off by ads and
some of it gets siphoned off in
different ways. But this many hold out
groups across many companies have proven
this. So the question for any one of
these companies is how much engagement
are we willing to take in exchange for
monetization. And so I think first you
need to have a hold out group. I'm sure
they're having it a hold out group of
people who never ever see any ads
because that's your fresh group that
never sees ads and you need to
understand that's their behavior. And
then you need to always understand how
uh how you know people with ads are
behaving and then you need to figure out
uh what the engagement hit is from each
quantum of ads and you need to then give
your ads team a certain engagement
budget and so that's what at at Facebook
there was an engagement budget every
year that between the newsfeed team and
the ads team we had to adhere to. In
other words, uh we yes we wanted this
much revenue but it the the check metric
on the revenue was we can't take more
than x% dip in engagement overall for
newsfeed.
>> What are the attributes of a good
northstar metric? Like what advice would
you give someone that's trying to pick
the thing around which the company is
going to optimize?
>> Yeah, the northstar metric is a is a
metric that is an indicator of company
growth and customer value. So it
actually balances customer value and
business value nicely. Nostra metrics in
my opinion should not be revenue. It
should be something that is directly
correlated with customer value. So for
example, if customers are doing well,
the Nostra metric should go up and to
the right, but it should also lead in
business the business doing well. For
example, for Square, the Nostar metric
was GPV, which is volume of payments
processed. It was not correlated to re
it was somewhat correlated to revenue,
but it most importantly showed that the
number of the amount of payment
processed to the company was continuing
to grow. At Facebook, the northstar
metric was DA us. It was actually
monthly active users. Then it over time
went to daily active users because it
was a sense it was an indication of how
engaged C users were. Now, one of the
most important things about an NSM is
that it needs to be coupled with what we
call check metrics. In other words,
NSTAR metrics if they're left alone can
as you know incentives drive behavior.
So if you tell a team go and optimize
this Nstra metric they will do what it
is going to go up 100%. But then many
things that you don't want to go down
could go down. So for example in in the
Door Dash case you could say I want to
grow GMV which is the gross
merchandising value which is the
Nordstar metric. Now GMV is the total
order of total value of all the orders
that go through the marketplace. I could
make it grow up by offering by setting
delivery fee to zero by setting
everything to zero and what happens
then? The company's revenue goes to
zero. So you basically want a check
metric that is maybe a check metric
around the health of the customer and a
check metric around the health of the
company that basically hold this that
are the guard rails around this Nstra
metric. So in the case of Door Dash it
might be I want to maintain a certain
gross margin percentage or I want to
maintain a certain customer retention
percentage something like that. Again it
might be margin is typically a good one
to use because in some ways that is a
indicator of the company health.
>> There's these two ideas that we talked
about when we first met. One was the
need the need for the very best software
companies to sort of stand alone in the
sense that someone can just go use it
without talking to a human and it just
it works for their problem. So like
fully fully self-s serve. Love to hear
you talk about that. And a related idea
was that's sort of on the builder side.
On the investor side, you mentioned to
me that all the great investments that
you've had, the companies that have
really had like explosive growth have
had a high number of one of four
qualities which is I think was gross
margins, low cost to acquire the
customer. um high retention and a tight
sales cycle which maybe match maps back
onto the self-s serve thing.
>> Yeah.
>> So talk about the relationship between
those two things.
>> The self-s serve notion actually came
from Google was Google was the first
company I worked at which achieved
massive scale and what happened at
Google was within the ads team. Uh we
basically had wide number of customers
using us the millions of customers using
us. There were a lot of small businesses
but there were also large companies.
what we ended up doing to serve the
large companies. Large companies didn't
want to use the product themselves. They
had uh agencies using it for them on
their behalf and they also had internal
people at Google support and sales and
operations people using them. So on the
product side we built a lot of tools for
this internal for our internal
colleagues for our sales and operations
colleagues to manage the system for our
large customers. One day I think we were
at a Larry review and we were showing
these what we called ICS internal
customer systems to Larry. I think we we
were not meaning to show it but I think
to show him a demo we somehow got into
it. He was like what is that? We're like
well it's a system used by our internal
teams. He's like why'd you build it? We
were like well we have to help our large
customers. He said I don't want you mean
our small customers don't have access to
it. We're like no end it right now. We
were like what do you mean end it? I
want to make sure that everything you're
building for large customers is also
available to small customers. And so we
basically had to take everything we had
built over years for in this IC system
and made it make it available to
customers. And turns out an interesting
thing happened. Turns out the smaller
customers adopted it much faster because
some of these things we're building had
advanced knobs and so on that we didn't
think they would use. Turns out the
self-s served customers were the most
sophisticated users because if you do
something that's interesting, there's
all these small agencies, entrepreneurs,
hustlers, all of these folks, they if
you can help them make more money, the
it's it's a testament to human
creativity and ability, they exploit the
system in ways that you never you never
even know and you learn a lot from
working with them. So I've seen in every
case when you open up your system to
selfs serve you learn so much more about
the capability of your product than if
you basically it's your sales team doing
it on their behalf. In fact, I'll never
forget in AdSense, I think we had some
of the largest publishers in the world
sign up and start using us on a self-s
served basis and then we engage with
them after that. And I think companies
like Atlacian, Square, I think we had
Nike, I think start signed up for a uh
for a for a Square uh device and and
sell some onboarded and start using in
one of their stores. We had I think
Whole Foods. So, I think it just changes
it does two things. One, it makes your
product better. It makes your product
better because these folks they use the
product in ways that you don't expect or
anticipate and it helps you it forces
you because what is the definition of
self-s serve? The definition of self-s
serve is the customer can onboard not
just use but onboard and use the product
without ever talking to or engaging with
a single member of the employee base at
the company. So when you do that that
means you have to think about how do
they actually get set up with the
product. So it really puts a lot of
effort on onboarding because onboarding
is one of those things where most people
drop off if you don't do a good job and
then you've got to get them to a moment
of delight very quickly. All of those
things a large if you're not building a
sales product you don't even think about
and a seller product you think about it
every day. It's like a consumer product
or sells a business product. And then
second what it does for you is it opens
up the aperture to your customers
because with say a 100 salespeople yeah
you can reach maybe 10,000 customers but
with a self-so product with the right
word of mouth you can reach millions of
customers look at cursor for example it
is used in every large company I bet
only maybe 1% of companies is maybe the
top down motion 99.9% of companies some
engineer got it great example is a
company is Figma actually after I
invested in Figma I joined square one
and a half years later I tried to
basically push Figma down top down into
the design team because learning design
I said you got to use Figma designers
refused to use it they're using a tool
called sketch and they said we're not
going to use it sketch is much better
and so I felt okay it's not my place to
tell them what tools to use so I backed
off two years later a mid-level design
manager came in and they brought in
Figma from their prior company and they
basically got got it to be used across
and it kicked out sketch so I think with
self-s serve you can get into these
things where even there's an incumbent
But you can infiltrate and be an
insurgent in a unique and powerful way
which a sales direct sales motion could
never have produced then.
>> One of the other dimensions that's
changing fast is careers. I'm curious
what you think about the sorts of people
that will thrive best in this new era.
If you're a person hiring someone, what
are the sorts of things that you would
place extra emphasis on now in the sort
of AI era?
>> The number one thing I think is going to
be the focus on doing and building. I
think CEOs have gotten too comfortable
over time and I think this is changing
hiring middle management very very
quickly and hiring sea level people
instead I think you're going to see the
rise of AI agents doing a lot of work
but then humans who manage the AI agents
and our IC's so I think what the number
one skill that is going to be relevant
two years from now probably even one
year from now is to become a functional
expert that knows how to build AI agents
to do that function and orchestrate an
army of AI agents to do that function.
Well, there was a great article the
other day I read about an PM at Meta
who's non-technical but who basically
built a bunch of AI agents to do his job
as a PM so well that even his engineers
like teach me how to use a AI agents
well. And so I think that's what you
want. You want somebody who is
essentially acting as a manager but not
of humans but of AI agents. And
management has to be a full-time job.
What I mean by that is if you manage
three, five, 10 people that's not
enough. You either need to be managing
50 humans or you need to be an IC. And
so there would there's something called
span of control which means how many
people you manage in some ways. And so
span of control less than 10 should not
be allowed at any company at this point.
I think everyone should have I think a
full-time because think about it if
you're managing even 15 people maybe you
meet with them once a week that's 15
hours. What are you doing for the other
25, 30, 40 hours?
>> You should be working. And on the
company side, don't hire managers as
long as possible. Hire doers. Hire
builders.
>> How do you what is your favorite way to
assess whether or not someone is is that
in interviewing them or learning about
them?
>> Best way is to give them a work project.
Engineering does a great job.
Engineering has always done a great job.
Every company I've been at, they would
have engineering coding interviews,
programming interviews.
>> Yeah. Do stuff. Everywhere else you can
just BS your way without doing stuff.
You can just talk and talk is not you
got to actually do stuff. Produce an art
artifact. So at square we established
work projects where even for corp dev I
remember corpdeev our our work project
was tell me about give me one company
that square should buy and analyze the
company and tell us why we should buy it
and tell us what the synergy should be.
So the best candidates had to do that.
So every every function needs to have a
work project that you need to put them
in a room without AI and get them to do
the project. Get them to do the work
that is ideally very similar to the work
they're going to do. I we would almost
give them for product managers we would
take a product we were thinking about
and we would just say here's a product
we're thinking about figure it out
should we build it. The first and most
important thing you want for these kind
of thing is especially for customer
facing roles they need to take the voice
of the customer. In other words, they
need to justify the why. The best PM
candidates rejected the premise
completely
>> and they did it in a beautiful way. They
went and talked to 10 customers on the
street. It's so brilliant. They said, "I
talked to 10 customers. I they were all
square users, which is so easy. Mint
plaza, you go there and we found that
none of them want a pre want this
premium insights product. So, we don't
build it. We're going to build this
other thing." And said it was amazing.
That's what you want to see. You want
agency. You don't want people to just
say, "Give me what to do and I'll do You
want people to reject the premise or
question the premise in the first place.
Square should not buy a company. That
would be great. Why? Tell me why. And so
that's the kind of thinking you're
looking for.
>> What was Tony's thing?
>> Tony's thing was he would give people
either $10 or $20 and ask them to
acquire a,000 customers. A,000 customers
for Door Dash consumers. And literally
some people would say, "I'm not going to
take this challenge. I'm not ready for
it or something." and great that if you
literally opt out of it and then some
people would take it and the goal nobody
even came close to acquiring a thousand
or even 100 I think but the goal was to
see how many different things they were
able to try in the course of few hours
someone went to the gym printed flyers
out and gave it out people tried all
kinds of things it it was a brilliant
way to just just filter out people who
didn't want to do stuff
>> is there any other advice that you would
give the person building the career we
talked about you know evaluating and and
uh be a builder and all these sorts of
things. How should one think about
managing a career in the AI era?
>> Stay at every job long enough to have
impact. I have over the last 18 24
months I've been seeing this phenomenon
of job hoppers or job optimizers I call
them who stay at a job for 12 to 18
months and then they move to the next
job and then they say 12 to 18 months
and move to the next job. I think that
that is one of the biggest red flags as
a hiring manager that I see because I
don't think you can achieve anything of
value. You can't have any impact on a
company in 12 to 18 months. I think it
takes minimum 3 to four years to have
impact on a company. So my top advice is
stay long enough to have an impact,
build a network, have fun. Don't from
the moment you start a job, don't be
thinking about what my next job is. once
in a while maybe one job it didn't work
out uh amongst a series of jobs okay you
left it 18 months but if I'm seeing two
or three jobs back to back immediate red
flag I posted this on X and tons of
managers wrote to me saying it's an
immediate red flag so you do a massive
disservice and you won't even know the
problem is you'll get rejected you won't
know what happened it's that people want
people who stick around and build who's
going to hire you if they see that's
your behavior so I think it's a very
shortserving or it's it's a very
short-term thinking you got to build
something of value and that comes with
time.
>> So much of the theme here has been uh
identifying a superpower, having one in
the first place, evaluating one,
matching it to a problem with a leader
and so on with your investor hat on and
your new firm marathon. How do you
assess the capacity or existence of a
superpower in a person? Like what what
how have you learned to do that? Well,
>> the most important thing I look for is
founder authenticity. If you think about
it, three of the four companies I worked
with, Google, Facebook and and Door
Dash, all started in school, all started
in colleges and they all started as a
way to just a toy problem almost that
that the founders are curious about and
they started with an authentic
curiosity. Can this be built and then it
became it got built and it started and
similarly with Jack and Jim, they
started solving a real problem. So my
first question to every founder is tell
me your founding story. Why did you
decide to start this company? And so the
founding story in my opinion is what a
lot of it expresses why they chose this
problem and ideally it should touch on
what the superpower is and what
compelled them to work on this problem.
I really I I've had many people work
with me or for me who have gone out to
start companies with the only reason
being well I have my buddy and we both
want to start a company together. I
really advise them not to do that
because just going out and starting a
company because you want to start a
company with your friend is the wrong
reason. So I want to understand is there
an authentic lived experience that
they've had in their life that compels
them to work on this product. Dylan uh
from Figma, if you talk to him, he's
seeped in design. He thinks about the
design of things. He thinks about how to
make things more compelling and it was
very clear that he had a vision for what
this thing would be. And a good example
is a company called Fair. It's a B2B
marketplace. Max RHS the CEO worked for
me at Square. And Max when he left
Square he actually tried many different
ideas and turns out and none of them
were authentic to him and to fair. Turns
out the idea that worked was fair. Why?
Because when he was a undergrad student
he had an umbrella company that he
created and this umbrella company he was
trying to get distribution for it in
local retail and it was extremely hard
for a brand. How do you get local
retail? There's so many of them. How do
you go in and pitch to them? So he
realized that that problem is the one he
wanted to focus on other manufacturers
who wanted to get access to local
retail.
>> Are there any other questions that you
love to ask in a first meeting learning
about a company other than tell me your
origin story?
>> I think the other one is idea maze. Tell
me about how you navigated the idea
maze. Yes, you want to tackle this
problem because again this is a classic
product thing. You start with the
problem but then there are many
different solutions, many different ways
to solve it. Why did you choose this
solution? Why did you choose this way
versus the other way? So I will
basically throw try to throw them off
course or offkilter by asking them five
six other ways to solve the same problem
and ask understand if they are if they
are students of either history or their
industry to say why this problem why
this problem could not be better tackled
in this way. So I want to understand
that they have studied alternate
approaches historical approach to solve
this problem. I think good example is
the Collisons I think bought a book on
payments and they studied exactly why
all the payments companies did what they
did and how they failed and how they
succeeded and I think the best founders
are students of history in that industry
and they understand why all the prior
companies took the decision and ideally
they stand on the shoulders of giants
they're able to build this company the
other thing I always recommend to CEOs
is a board role is like a marriage uh
once you get into it it's very hard to
get out of so never ever ever invite
anyone to join your board before
spending at least a year with them.
>> Have them join an advisory board. Have
them meet with everybody in the on the
management team. Spend time with them.
Have them come to a few board meetings.
Have them meet with the other board
members. Come to a board dinner. But
don't and have three or four people in
your advisory board and then make one of
them a board member. If you like them,
if you feel they're adding value, if
your team feels they're adding value,
etc. The other thing I've seen with
boards over the last 15 years is the
management team getting involved. 15
years ago, it would just be the CEO, the
co-founder maybe, and the board. We'd
meet for four or five hours, discuss
topics, maybe bring in the management
team person for one slice, the CFO, and
then they would leave. Now, most
companies, they have the management team
attend the entire board meeting, entire
board meeting except for what is called
the executive session. And I think that
is awesome. Why? Because I think
management team and board get to meet
each other. As part of a board, you want
to understand who's on the management
team. Who could be successor to the CEO?
What are the capabilities of different
parts of the management team? And then
as the management team, you want the
management team to be able to leverage
the board for help. I think one of the
best practices I've seen done and I've
I've now tried to push other companies
to do it is a notion of a board buddy.
So everyone on the board should become a
buddy to manage team member and and they
would then meet with that managing team
member uh multiple times between board
meetings. So once a month or even text
with them and anything they're almost
like a sounding board anything the
management member has. So that you can
see that the different board personas I
described they map nicely. So I
generally am the management the buddy
for the head of product or the head of
engineering. Somebody else is a buddy to
the CFO someone else is the head buddy
to the CRO etc etc. So it's a I think
the meetings in between the board
meetings are actually just as important
as a board meeting themselves because
that's when you are cuz a board meeting
can there's a lot of things going on.
Yeah. And so but but those relationship
that's the other thing I realized it's
not the board meeting that truly
matters. It's all the things between the
board meetings that that are the real
real thing when things get done. I think
the only thing we haven't talked about
in this like grand art of company
building and and and product creation is
the the job of acquiring the customer,
positioning the product, marketing, the
way it sort of presents itself to the
outside world. What's the dispatch from
like the cutting edge that you're seeing
of how people do this? All these things,
position, brand, customer acquisition,
the ways they do that. What does like
new excellence look like to you across
this the many many companies that you
get to see?
>> One of the most interesting things now
it's different between enterprise
focused and consumer focus. For consumer
focused companies the big thing is how
to scale influencers. I think
influencers have become much much much
more every year they become much more
powerful in how people especially
younger people consume products and and
even choose products. Somebody said that
Tik Tok is the best local search engine
and I think that's right. My kids have
discovered crazy when you go traveling,
crazy restaurants on Tik Tok that Google
Maps would not really show or Yelp
doesn't show, etc. So, how do you reach
influencers on Tik Tok? And there's a
set of companies that's coming out
that's essentially making it easy. The
problem is influencers on Tik Tok
obviously there's head influencers, but
there's a long tail that go viral for
different reasons and you want to
capitalize on those viral waves if
possible. So there is a set of companies
that is building products to see if they
can help brands connect with these
influencers in scalable ways. On the
enterprise side, I think the most
interesting thing I'm seeing it's not
really a um acquisition channel as much
as it is a u onboarding channel. It is
basically presenting an outcome to
customer and saying let's collaborate on
outcomes. Palunteer does that very well.
Palunteer goes to customers and say
what's your most important business
problem? Oh, here it is. Okay, great.
Give us 6 months to solve it. Engage
with us. If we can't solve it, fire us.
Don't pay us anything. If we solve it,
pay us a lot of money. So, it's truly
taking ownership. And I think this goes
to outcome based pricing. How your
product is priced and your confidence in
your ability to deliver that outcome of
course. Um, so I think outcomebased
selling is I think one of the most
interesting ways of changing. And in
fact, I I've one of the top piece of
advice I have for founders reaching out
to companies is you cannot lead with
what your product does anymore. You've
got to lead with what is the outcome you
can deliver or ideally even have
delivered. I'll never forget this uh
this example and what is crazy is that
companies always look to other companies
in the vertical. This never will change.
So for example, if you get JP Morgan to
use your product, I promise you every
single bank will then evaluate your
product. But if you get Proctor and
Gamble, JP Morgan doesn't care if Prot
and Gamble use your product. So even
when you go to market, you've got to
target instead of trying to be too
horizontal unless it's bottoms up. On a
sales side, you've got to try to go
after one or two very specific verticals
because there is a very clear lighthouse
effect. You want to go after the best
one and get the best one and then you
basically win all the other ones in your
in that vertical.
>> I think you might know my traditional
closing question uh that I ask
everybody. What is the kindest thing
that anyone's ever done for you?
>> There are so many. I think uh the the
best one is a guy called Bob McDonald. I
was basically a student uh a business
school student on the east coast. I
really wanted to uh get a job. I was in
a visa. I wanted to get a job in Silicon
Valley. I was somewhat unqualified. I
was I'd never been a product manager
before. I'd been an engineer and never
worked in photonics optical networking
before. And Bob basically saw a spark in
me and said, "You know what? I'm going
to make a bet on you and I'm going to
hire you and I'm going to bring you to
Silicon Valley and you're going to be he
was a Sequoia funed company, one of the
hottest companies in the valley. He
could have had any pick of anyone but he
bet on me. So I basically have taken
this approach that I try to pay it
forward and I have no expectation when I
do something for someone.
>> What created the spark in you?
>> Like what about your life? Where did the
spark come from? Uh for me it's all
about just knowing how fortunate I am to
be healthy. Uh to have a family that
loves me and to know that in almost
every every run of the simulation I
could be in one a million different
worst circumstances that I am today. And
so just gratefulness and gratitude about
where I'm sitting. I mean we are sitting
in literally the top 1% of the 1% of the
1% situations right now and breathing.
And so literally I think I feel pain
when I see somebody suffering and I see
as they say there for the grace of God
go I in some ways and but for the grace
of God and you basically realize that
you're very lucky to be given this one
life and you have a responsibility to
the world and yourself to be grateful
and to to lead the best life you can.
>> Koko, this was incredibly fun. Thank you
so much for your time Patrick.
>> Thank you. Thank you my friend.
You know how small advantages compound
over time? That's true in investing and
just as true in how you run your
company. Your spending system is your
capital allocation strategy. Ramp makes
it smarter by default. Better data,
better decisions, better economics over
time. See how at ramp.com/invest.
As your business grows, Vant scales with
you, automating compliance and giving
you a single source of truth for
security and risk. Learn more at
vanta.com/invest.
Every investment firm is unique and
generic AI doesn't understand your
process. Rogo does. It's an AI platform
built specifically for Wall Street
connected to your data, understanding
your process and producing real outputs.
Check them out at rogo.ai/invest.
The best AI and software companies from
OpenAI to Cursor to Perplexity. Use Work
OS to become enterprise ready overnight,
not in months. Visit works.com to skip
the unglamorous infrastructure work and
focus on your product. Ridgeline is
redefining asset management technology
as a true partner, not just a software
vendor. They've helped firms 5x in
scale, enabling faster growth, smarter
operations, and a competitive edge.
Visit ridgelineapps.com to see what they
can unlock for your firm.